Environments in salesforce

salesforce environment management
salesforce editions
salesforce login
salesforce environment sustainability
in which of the following environments can developers write code select all that apply
learn salesforce
salesforce developer edition login
salesforce crash course

salesforce platform
salesforce sandbox types
salesforce architecture
what is sandbox and its types in salesforce
basics of salesforce

Salesforce is known as the world's number one CRM and has been recongnized by global leaders all over the world. Salesforce as a platform provides main support for SAAS and PAAS services. SAAS means software as a service and it provides this service on rent which is similar to rented property and within salesforce we purchanse lincense based on users as well as the salesforce editions which we purchase. PAAS means platform as a service and you take Force.com/Heroku to customize your application but we need salesforce environments so that developers can perform there metadata changes and write code with respect to there business requirement. Thus, In this article I would like to talk about salesforce environments.


Table of contents:
Environments in salesforce
Introduction To Sandbox
What is Refresh Of Sandbox?
What is Refresh Interval In Sandbox?
What is Production?
Types Of Sandboxes in Salesforce with Storage Limit and refresh interval.
How to create a sandbox
Summary Of Environments

Environment In Salesforce: 

Environments in salesforce is an instance of the force.com salesforce platform.It is also known as orgs or organization in salesforce. If someone is talking about orgs it means that he is talking about Environments in salesforce.
There are many functionalities as well as features of salesforce environments which are mentioned below;
1. Salesforce Environments can be utilized for developing code, testing the functionality of the code, training users and used as a production environment for end users.
2. Every salesforce evnironment has its own data storage and you can perform configuration, integration as well as customization based on the features that you want to develop for your client.
3. The functionaltiy that I have discussed so far in points 1, 2 is based on the salesforce editions that you purchase, if you would like to purchase any salesforce edition you can look into there website mentioned here "https://www.salesforce.com/editions-pricing/sales-cloud/".
4. As we all know salesforce is on cloud hence, the way you login to your system is via an internet service provider like Google, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer etc. The other ways to loging is via SOAP API or Metadata API.
4. Salesforce envioronments is used to extend/enhance the application based on business needs of your orgaization
   without effecting production environment.

Hence, to summarize salesforce environment let's you to develop your application and deploy those applications to production environments.

Introduction To Sandbox

Sandbox is a copy of production organisation or a copy of any other salesforce environment that you are presently using that can be used to perform tasks like configuration, customization and development of lightning components.These sandboxes can used by developers to develop there code / feature. If you want to do a test for these features you can create a new testing sandbox also known as quality assurance sandbox. If you want to give Training to an individual you can also create a sandbox from production/other sandboxes.

What is Refresh Of Sandbox?

Refresh of sandbox: It is a term which is also used to create a sandbox from production/clone a sandbox from another sandbox. When I say "refresh a sandbox named as "DevSFDC247" it means to create a sandbox name it as DevSFDC247 from production/clone it from another sandbox. Give this sandbox a description to define the purpose of the sandbox that you are creating.

What is Refresh Interval In Sandbox?

The refresh interval is the number of days at which the salesforce server will be availaible to synchronize its records with the production environment of salesforce. There are different refresh intervals for different different sandboxes, which I will discuss in the Types of sandbox section.


Fig is mentioned below.

What is Production?

Production is an instance of force.com where the data needed to run the business logic is stored. It is basically meant for business end users and where goLive users work together in a platform.

How to login to production salesforce?

You can login into Production salesforce using the url https://www.login.salesforce.com

Types Of Sandboxes in Salesforce

The sandboxes are classified into four types which are mentioned below and also we will look at the features that these sandboxes support.

Developer Sandbox:

	1. It is an instance of force.com.
	2. It is basically designed for development activities by individual developers.
	3. It is a Independent copy of production's metadata.
	4. Datasize 	: It supports only 200 MB
	5. File Size 	: It supports only 200 MB
	6. Refresh Rate : 1 time in a day.
	7. Actions 	: It is used for Development and Unit Testing (Test classes for salesforce) by individual developer.
	8. It includes Configuration, All Metadata components and all users. 
	
	
Developer Pro :
	
	1. It is an instance of force.com
	2. It is basically designed for Development and Testing by individual developers.
	3. It is a independent copy of production metadata. 
	4. It is also called as Quality Assurance environment / Sandbox.
	5. Datasize: It supports 1 GB 
	6. File Size: It supports 1 GB
	7. Refresh Interval: One(1) time in a day.
	8. Actions: It is used for Development, Testing and Quality Assurance testing by multiple developers.
	9. It includes Configuration, All Metadata components and all users.
	
	
Partial Copy  Sandbox :
	
	1. It is a instance of force.com
	2. It is a independent copy of Production metadata with sample data 
	3. It supports Maximum of 10,000 records per object, can be increased later.
	4. It is generally called UAT environment 
	5. Datasize 		: It supports 5 GB 
	6. File Size		: It supports 5 GB 
	7. Refresh Rate 	: One(1) time in every five days.
	8. Actions 		: It is used for Development and Testing.					
	9. It is generally used for testing activities.
	10.It includes Configuration, All Metadata components, all users, Records (with sample of selected objects) and Sandbox Template Support.

Full Sandbox :
	
	1. It is a instance of Force.com 
	2. It is exact copy of production's metadata and data 
	3. It is designed for testing activities .
	4. Data size 		: Same size as production 
	5. File Size 		: Same size of production
	6. Refresh Interval : 1 time in 29 days
	7. Actions : All types of testing including load and performence testing 
	8. It is a also called as staging environment.
	9. It includes Configuration, All Metadata components, all users, Records (sample of selected objects),Sandbox Template Support, Records (all or selected objects), History & Chatter Data (is optional).

How you can Login to Sandbox Salesforce?

All the users can login into sandbox using url https://www.test.salesforce.com.

How to create sandbox in salesforce.

In order to create a sandbox we have login into production using url https://www.login.salesforce.com by providing correct username and password. Once you have logged into your production, please follow the below steps.

	STEP 1. In the home page click on setup.
	STEP 2. Go to Quick Find search for Sandboxes.
	STEP 3. Based on Available Sandbox ( Licenses Developer, Developer Pro, Partial Copy and full ) you will create your type of sandbox. 	For example let us say SFDC247 have 5 full sandboxes so, it can create 5 full sandboxes for SFDC247 Organization. Go inside Action tab of Available Sandbox Licenses and click on refresh.
	STEP 4. You will be redirected to a new page known by Refresh Sandbox.
	STEP 5. Under Sandbox Information give Name of sandbox (), Description of sandbox, Create From (it will have two options one is production and other is the previous used sandboxes, you have the option to clone from other sandboxes mentioned on the list.)
	STEP 6. Click on Next on the same page within Sandbox License Section.
	STEP 7. Again you will be directed to another page "Refresh Sandbox" Under Sandbox Options click on Auto Activate (This option will 		activate your sandbox immediately and you will receive an email mentioning the sandbox is ready to use login by appending 		username of sandbox that you created).
	STEP 9. Last step is to click on Create Button and it will create your sandbox.
	STEP 10. In case you want to create manually, Navigate to Setup type in Quick find Sandboxes.
		Click the "Activate" link next to the appropriate Sandbox, then on activate/ok button to confirm the activation of the 				Sandbox.

5.	Update Email Deliverability
Update the email addresses of the contacts:
•	Navigate to Setup | Email Administration | Deliverability
•	Set the Access Level to: All email
•	Click on the button Save


6.	Notify concerned people
Say to the requester “Hey, your sandbox is ready to be used”  😉
(Don’t do it if useless : You can also use the mailing list HQ DL CRM TEAM PARIS if you want to notify all people or the Chatter Group “CRM Solution News”)


	 


How to login into a sandbox from Sandboxes page in Production org ...

Users can log into the sandbox at https://test.salesforce.com by appending . sandbox_name to their Salesforce usernames. For example, if a username for a production organization is user1@acme.com, and the sandbox is named “test”, then the modified username to log into the sandbox is user1@acme.com.test.


sandbox in salesforce trailhead
salesforce sandbox pricing
how to check sandbox type in salesforce
all about sandbox in salesforce
how to create sandbox in salesforce developer edition
salesforce sandbox refresh
salesforce sandbox refresh best practices

salesforce sandbox login password
salesforce login
how to give access to sandbox in salesforce
can we login to sandbox from production
aloha salesforce login
salesforce refresh sandbox can t login
salesforce developer edition login
salesforce create sandbox










